In SQL, a JOIN clause combines
columns from one or more tables,
allowing us to retrieve data
stored in different tables by
using values common to each.
Unlike some distributed
databases, CrateDB fully
supports joins.
In this video, you'll see how to
join data from our Chicago taxis
and taxi_rides tables.
Let's get started.
This the schema for our taxis table.
This table contains details
about the vehicles comprising
Chicago's taxi fleet, for
example, the make, model and
colour of each one.
Each vehicle is assigned a
unique vehicleid.
And here's the schema for our
taxi_rides table.
This table holds details of each
taxi ride taken in April 2024.
The vehicleid in this table
refers to the vehicle that
performed the ride.
If we know the vehicleid for a
ride, we can find the details of
the taxi that performed the ride
in the taxis table, and we can
use a vehicleid from the Taxis
table to query the taxi_rides
table.
This query retrieves some of the
details for Kia Soul taxis.
There are eight of these
vehicles in Chicago's taxi
fleet.
Using the vehicleid of one of
these taxis, we can see the
details of the rides performed
by that vehicle.
What if we wanted to show
details from the taxis table in
the result set for this sort of
query?
This is where we need to use a
join.
This query retrieves the start
time of the most recent taxi
ride performed by each of our
Kia Soul taxis.
We want to retrieve the vehicleid,
make, model and latest start
time for each.
The data is spread over 2
tables, taxis and taxi_rides.
We use the t or r prefix when
referencing the vehicleid
column, as this column is common
to both tables in the where
clause, we're joining the two
tables by specifying that for
each result, the vehicleid in
the taxis table must match the
vehicleid in the taxi_rides
table.
This query returns a result set
containing data from both
tables.
vehicleid an ride_start come
from data in the taxi_rides
table, while make and model come
from data in the taxis table.
Here's the same query but
expressed differently.
This time we're using a JOIN
clause to specify how the rows
in the two tables relate to each
other.
Running the query produces the
same result as before.
This query returns the number of
trips made by each of our Kia
Soul Taxis where the trip
originated in Community area 76
O'Hare and ended in Community
Area 32: The Loop.
Running this query returns
3 results.
Each result is for a vehicle
which had matching taxi rides.
Recall that there are 8 Kia Soul
taxis in Chicago's fleet.
So why do we only have 3
results?
This is because we're performing
what's called an INNER JOIN
here.
With an INNER JOIN, only records
that have a match in both tables
are returned, as five of our Kia
Soul taxis didn't perform a trip
that met the criteria.
There are no matching results in
the taxi_rides table for them,
and they are omitted from the
result set.
What if we wanted to produce a
report including all the Kia
Soul taxis, even those that
didn't perform any qualifying
trips?
For that, we need an outer join.
In this case, we want a left
join.
We want to return all of the
rows from the left hand table
taxis even if there aren't any
matching records in the taxi
rides table.
We achieved that by specifying
LEFT JOIN here.
When we run this query, we see
that there are now 8 rows in the
result set, one for each of the
Kia Soul taxis.
This includes the five taxis
that didn't perform any
qualifying rights.
In this video you saw how to
perform queries with joins in
CrateDB.
CrateDB supports INNER, OUTER
and CROSS joins.
For more information, consult
the documentation online.